DOCS-8158: Updates to the API Designer documentation for the OAS 3 support and other changes to API Console (#145)
mulesoft/docs-design-center: modules/ROOT/pages/design-documentation.adoc

= Differences for OAS 3.0 in Rendered Documentation
ifndef::env-site,env-github[]
include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

:imagesdir: ../assets/images

> The right pane of the text editor in API Designer displays the documentation that is written into API specifications. For API specifications that are written in RAML or OAS 2.0, the ways that the documentation is rendered are identical. However, the documentation for API specifications that are written in OAS 3.0 can include multiple server definitions, as well as links and callbacks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The right pane of the text editor in API Designer displays the documentation that is written into API specifications. For API specifications that are written in RAML or OAS 2.0, the documentation is rendered identically. However, the documentation for API specifications that are written in OAS 3.0 can include multiple server definitions, as well as links and callbacks.
```

== Documentation for Definitions of Multiple Servers

> OAS 3.0 lets you define servers by using the `servers` field. You can define servers globally at the top of a specification, locally for endpoints, and locally for methods. Local definitions override the definitions set at the next higher level in the specification's hierarchy. Definitions set locally for methods override definitions set at endpoints and globally. Definitions set locally for endpoints override definitions set globally.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
OAS 3.0 enables you to define servers by using the `servers` field. You can define servers globally at the top of a specification, locally for endpoints, and locally for methods. Local definitions override the definitions set at the next-higher level in the specification's hierarchy. Definitions set locally for methods override definitions set at endpoints and globally. Definitions set locally for endpoints override definitions set globally.
```

> The following example API specification demonstrates different ways, indicated by ten callouts (1 - 10), that you can set server definitions. After the example API specification, the documentation for the portion of the API at each callout is illustrated with a screenshot.

Reviewer: This is where we are supposed to use an en-dash, but, once again, AsciiDoc does not do it. So in this case, we substitute a hyphen:
```suggestion
The following example API specification demonstrates different ways, indicated by ten callouts (1-10), that you can set server definitions. After the example API specification, the documentation for the portion of the API at each callout is illustrated with a screenshot.
```
OR, to avoid the parenthetical...
```suggestion
The following example API specification demonstrates 10 different ways to set server definitions. After the example API specification, the documentation for the portion of the API at each of callouts 1 through 10 is illustrated with a screenshot.
```

        description: Production server
      - url: http://beta.api.company.org/data/2.5/
        description: Beta server
    get:<5>
      summary: "The get method for /duplicated"
      responses:
        200:
          description: Successful response
  /files:<6>
    description: File upload and download operations
    servers:
      - url: https://files.example.com
        description: Override base path for all operations with the /files path
    get:<7>
      summary: "The get method for /files"
      responses:
        200:
          description: Successful response
  /ping:<8>
    servers:
      - url: https://endpoint.example.com
        description: Override base path servers
    get:<9>
      servers:
        - url: https://echo.example.com
          description: Override base path for the GET /ping operation
        - url: https://echo2.example.com
          description: Also overrides base path for the GET /ping operation
      summary: "The get method for /ping"
      responses:
        200:
          description: Successful response
    post:<10>
      summary: "The post method for /ping"
      responses:
        201:
          description: Successful create
----

> 

Reviewer: Should these page names be in * *? Are they UI labels?

1. The Summary page of the documentation for this API lists the four servers that are defined in this `servers` field:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-summary.png[]

> 2. The `/default` endpoint does not override the base `servers` definition at the top of the API. On the Overview page for the endpoint, you can select from those four servers to see the URI for this endpoint at each:

Reviewer: I cannot parse this text: "...you can select from those four servers to see the URI for this endpoint at each."
Can you clarify?

+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-default.png[]

> 3. The `GET` method for the `/default` endpoint also inherits the four servers in the base `servers` definition. On the page for this method, you can select from those four servers to see the URI for this method at each:

Reviewer: ditto prev.: "at each" what? "at each server"?

Reviewer: Per the "font choices" entry in our style ref., HTTP error codes, error names, and operations are not formatted, other than being in ALLCAPS, per industry standard.
Use GET and related, GLOBALLY in this PR.
--

Reviewer: (I don't know why this ^ happened.)

+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-default-get.png[]

4. The `/duplicated` endpoint overrides the base `servers` definition, its local `servers` definition including only the last two servers of the original four. On the Overview page for the endpoint, you can select from those two servers to see the URI for this endpoint at each:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-duplicated.png[]

5. The `GET` method for the `/duplicated` endpoint inherits the two servers in the local `servers` definition. On the page for this method, you can select from those two servers to see the URI for this method at each:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-duplicated-get.png[]

6. The `/files` endpoint overrides the base `servers` definition, its local `servers` definition including only one server. On the Overview page for this endpoint, there are no servers to choose from, as there were for the previous two endpoints:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-files.png[]

> 7. The `GET` method for the `/files` endpoint inherits the one server in the local `servers` definition. On the page for thie method, there is no list of servers to choose from.

Reviewer: colon
```suggestion
7. The `GET` method for the `/files` endpoint inherits the one server in the local `servers` definition. On the page for thie method, there is no list of servers to choose from:
```

+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-files-get.png[]

8. The `/ping` endpoint overrides the base `servers` definition, its local `servers` definition including only one server. On the Overview page for this endpoint, there are no servers to choose from:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-ping.png[]

9. The `GET` method for the `/ping` endpoint overrides both the base `servers` definition and the `/ping` endpoint's local `servers` definition. The `GET` method's local `servers` definition includes two servers. On the page for this method, you can select from those two servers to see the URI for this method at each:
+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-ping-get.png[]

> 10. The `POST` method for the `/ping` endpoint inherits the one server in the `/ping` endpoint's local `servers` definition. On the Overview page for this endpoint, there is no list of servers to choose from.

Reviewer: colon
```suggestion
10. The `POST` method for the `/ping` endpoint inherits the one server in the `/ping` endpoint's local `servers` definition. On the Overview page for this endpoint, there is no list of servers to choose from:
```

+
image::apid-apic-oas-3-ping-post.png[]

== Documentation for Links and Callbacks

> OAS 3.0 lets you define links and callbacks. For an explanation of these features, see the specification for openAPI 3.0 at \https://swagger.io/.

Reviewer: GLOBALLY "lets you" > "enables you to":
```suggestion
OAS 3.0 enables you to define links and callbacks. For an explanation of these features, see the specification for OpenAPI 3.0 at \https://swagger.io/.
```
Are these all angled properly?  "\https://swagger.io/."

            paymentUrl:
              parameters:
                paymentUrl: $response.body#/info.paymentUri
                paymentToken: $response.body#/info.token
      callbacks:
        inProgress:
          '{$request.body#/inProgressUrl}':<3>
            post:
              requestBody:
                $ref: '#/components/requestBodies/callbackMessage1'
              responses:
                '200':
                  description: OK
          '{$request.body#/failedUrl}':<4>
            post:
              requestBody:
                $ref: '#/components/requestBodies/callbackMessage2'
              responses:
                '200':
                  description: OK
          '{$request.body#/successUrl}':<5>
            post:
              requestBody:
                $ref: '#/components/requestBodies/callbackMessage3'
              responses:
                '200':
                  description: OK
  /unsubscribe:
      post:
        operationId: unsubscribeOperation
        parameters:
          - in: query
            name: Id
            required: true
            schema:
              type: string
        responses:
          '200':
            description: OK
----

> 

Reviewer: ditto for POST (no formatting)
